So far, we've presented
policy iteration as
a fairly rigid procedure.
We alternate between evaluating
the current policy and greedify
to improve the policy.
The framework of generalized
policy iteration allows
much more freedom than this while
maintaining our
optimality guarantees.
In this video, we will
outline some of
these alternatives.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to;
understand the framework of
generalized policy iteration,
outline value iteration and
important special case of
generalized policy iteration,
and differentiate synchronous and
asynchronous dynamic
programming methods.
Recall the dance of
policy and value.
The policy iteration
algorithm runs
each step all the way
to completion.
Intuitively, we can
imagine relaxing this.
Imagine instead, we follow
a trajectory like this.
Each evaluation step brings
our estimate a little closer to
the value of the current
policy but not all the way.
Each policy improvement step
makes our policy a
little more greedy,
but not totally greedy.
Intuitively, this process
should still make
progress towards the optimal
policy and value function.
In fact, the theory
tells us the same thing.
We will use the term
generalized policy
iteration to refer to
all the ways we can interleave
policy evaluation and
policy improvement.
This brings us to our first
generalized policy
iteration algorithm,
called value iteration.
In value iteration,
we still sweep over
all the states and greedify
with respect to
the current value function.
However, we do not run
policy evaluation to completion.
We perform just one sweep
over all the states.
After that, we greedify again.
We can write this as
an update rule which
applies directly to
the state value function.
The update does not reference
any specific policy,
hence the name value iteration.
The full algorithm looks very
similar to iterative
policy evaluation.
Instead of updating the value
according to a fixed falsey,
we update using the action that
maximizes the current
value estimate.
Value iteration still converges
to V star in the limit.
We can recover
the optimal policy from
the optimal value function
by taking the argmax.
In practice, we need to specify
a termination condition
because we can't wait forever.
We will use the same condition
we use for policy evaluation.
We simply terminate when
the maximum change in
the value function over
a full sweep is less than
some small value Theta.
Value iteration sweeps
the entire state space
on each iteration just
like policy iteration.
Methods that perform
systematic sweeps
like this are called synchronous.
This can be problematic if
the statespace is large.
Every sweep could take
a very long time.
Asynchronous dynamic
programming algorithms
update the values of
states in any order,
they do not perform
systematic sweeps.
They might update
a given state many times
before another is
updated even once.
In order to guarantee
convergence,
asynchronous algorithms
must continue to
update the values of all states.
Here for example,
the algorithm updates
the same three states forever
ignoring all the others.
This is not acceptable
because the other states
cannot be correct if they
are never updated at all.
Asynchronous algorithms
can propagate
value information quickly
through selective updates.
Sometimes this can be more
efficient than
a systematic sweep.
For example, an asynchronous
method can update
the states near those that
have recently changed value.
That's it for this video.
You should now understand that,
value iteration
allows us to combine
policy evaluation and
improvement in a single-step,
asynchronous dynamic
programming methods give
us freedom to update
states in any order,
and the idea of
generalized policy iteration
unifies many algorithms.
This includes value iteration,
asynchronous dynamic
programming, and
almost all the methods you will
cover in this specialization.
See you next time.